Flashback to my early days in office meetings; I’d sit in the far corner fearing the next word out of anyone’s mouth would be my name, followed by “When might you have an answer on that?”, as the project manager would turn to me about something the client raised on a call.

“I’m not sure… Let me get back to you,” was my measly reply each time. Nothing here made sense: meetings, diagrams whiteboards, emails I was cc’d on, product documentation, or even my own notes. This alien industry was full of new terms, acronyms, legacy technology as well as emerging tech, evolving industry standards, and regulations. Though I knew about my company’s clients as a consumer from my day-to-day life, I had only the vaguest idea of exactly why these consumer-facing companies paid our company money. My supportive colleagues would comfort me with “There’s no such thing as a stupid question.” in attempt to get me learning faster and contributing. Hearing that advice wasn’t enough. It wasn’t convincing to the self-preservation part of brain that defends its existence against potentially getting thrown out from the tribe for lacking social acumen by saying something stupid. 

My question may have the effect of temporarily sidetracking a fast-paced conversation among professionals with 5–10x my experience, but it ultimately has a net positive (I hope). Everyone on the call likely appreciates the temporary “dumb it down” reset and chance for realignment. Also, they appreciate their words are actually being listened closely to by someone such as myself. And the very least, they’re sympathetic to me in my position because they know someone asking question like mine is still green and trying to learn, and they’ve been in my shoes before and knows how it feels.
